Based on existing literature on GraphRAG, we present a holistic framework of GraphRAG. Next, we
introduce the basic problem setting and notation used throughout the whole framework.
2.1 Problem Setting and Notations
Following the general setting of RAG, given a graph-structured data source G, the user-defined
query Qis further sent to query processor ΩProcessor to obtain the pre-processed queryˆ
Q. After that,
the retriever ΩRetriever retrieves the content Cfrom the graph data source Gbased onˆ
Q. Next, the
retrieved content Cis refined by the organizer ΩOrganizer to formulate the refined contentˆ
C. Finally,
the refined contentˆ
Ctriggers the generator ΩGenerator to generate the final answer A. The above five
components are summarized as follows:
• Query Processor ΩProcessor: Preprocessing the given queryˆ
Q= ΩProcessor(Q).
• Graph Data Source G: Information organized in graph-structured format.
• Retriever ΩRetriever: Retrieve the content C= ΩRetriever(
ˆ
Q,G) from Gbased on the queryˆ
Q.
• Organizer ΩOrganizer: Arrange and refine the retrieved contentˆ
C= ΩOrganizer(
ˆ
Q,C).
• Generator: Generate answers A= ΩGenerator(
ˆ
Q,ˆ
C) to answer query Q.
Unlike sequential-based textual data and grid-structured image data, graph-structured data encapsu-
lates relational information. To effectively harness this relational information, the above five core
components of GraphRAG desire dedicated designs to handle graph-structured input/output and
support graph-based operations. For example, in the retriever component, conventional RAG in
the Natural Language Processing (NLP) utilizes sparse/dense encoders for index search [196, 468].
In contrast, GraphRAG employs graph traversal methods (e.g., entity linking and BFS/DFS) and
graph-based encoders (e.g., Graph Neural Networks (GNNs)) to produce embeddings for retrieval.
This motivates us to summarize key innovations and representative designs of GraphRAG for each of
the above five components under the holistic GraphRAG framework in the following.